This is the location of ancient Khersones, where Prince Vladimir was baptised.
His spiritual feat of adopting Orthodoxy predetermined the overall basis of the culture, civilisation and human values that unite the peoples of Russia, Ukraine and Belarus.
The graves of Russian soldiers whose bravery brought Crimea into the Russian empire are also in Crimea.
This is also Sevastopol – a legendary city with an outstanding history, a fortress that serves as the birthplace of Russia’s Black Sea Fleet.
Crimea is Balaklava and Kerch, Malakhov Kurgan and Sapun Ridge.
Each one of these places is dear to our hearts, symbolising Russian military glory and outstanding valour.
There is only one thing I can say here: millions of people of various ethnicities suffered during those repressions, and primarily Russians.
This is their common home, their motherland, and it would be right – I know the local population supports this – for Crimea to have three equal national languages: Russian, Ukrainian and Tatar.
In people’s hearts and minds, Crimea has always been an inseparable part of Russia. 
This firm conviction is based on truth and justice and was passed from generation to generation, over time, under any circumstances, despite all the dramatic changes our country went through during the entire 20th century.
This was done with no consideration for the ethnic make-up of the population, and today these areas form the southeast of Ukraine.
What matters now is that this decision was made in clear violation of the constitutional norms that were in place even then.
The decision was made behind the scenes.
Naturally, in a totalitarian state nobody bothered to ask the citizens of Crimea and Sevastopol.
They were faced with the fact.
Unfortunately, what seemed impossible became a reality.
The USSR fell apart.
Things developed so swiftly that few people realised how truly dramatic those events and their consequences would be.
They were told that there would be a single currency, a single economic space, joint armed forces; however, all this remained empty promises, while the big country was gone.
 It was only when Crimea ended up as part of a different country that Russia realised that it was not simply robbed, it was plundered.
Millions of people went to bed in one country and awoke in different ones, overnight becoming ethnic minorities in former Union republics, while the Russian nation became one of the biggest, if not the biggest ethnic group in the world to be divided by borders.
This is hard to disagree with.
It humbly accepted the situation.
This country was going through such hard times then that realistically it was incapable of protecting its interests.
(Applause)
Today we can speak about it openly, and I would like to share with you some details of the negotiations that took place in the early 2000s. The then President of Ukraine Mr Kuchma asked me to expedite the process of delimiting the Russian-Ukrainian border
At that time, the process was practically at a standstill.
Time and time again attempts were made to deprive Russians of their historical memory, even of their language and to subject them to forced assimilation.
I understand why Ukrainian people wanted change.
They have had enough of the authorities in power during the years of Ukraine’s independence.
Presidents, prime ministers and parliamentarians changed, but their attitude to the country and its people remained the same.
They milked the country, fought among themselves for power, assets and cash flows and did not care much about the ordinary people.
They did not wonder why it was that millions of Ukrainian citizens saw no prospects at home and went to other countries to work as day labourers.
I would like to stress this: it was not some Silicon Valley they fled to, but to become day labourers
The right to peaceful protest, democratic procedures and elections exist for the sole purpose of replacing the authorities that do not satisfy the people.
They resorted to terror, murder and riots.
Nationalists, neo-Nazis, Russophobes and anti-Semites executed this coup.
The new so-called authorities began by introducing a draft law to revise the language policy, which was a direct infringement on the rights of ethnic minorities.
However, they were immediately ‘disciplined’ by the foreign sponsors of these so-called politicians.
Nevertheless, we can all clearly see the intentions of these ideological heirs of Bandera, Hitler’s accomplice during World War II.
This is not a joke – this is reality.
Those who opposed the coup were immediately threatened with repression. 
Naturally, we could not leave this plea unheeded; we could not abandon Crimea and its residents in distress.
This would have been betrayal on our part.
They say we are violating norms of international law.
Firstly, it’s a good thing that they at least remember that there exists such a thing as international law – better late than never.
Secondly, and most importantly – what exactly are we violating?
Next.
Ukraine used this right, yet the residents of Crimea are denied it.
Why is that?
Crystal clear, as they say.
I do not like to resort to quotes, but in this case, I cannot help it.
Again, one wonders why.
We keep hearing from the United States and Western Europe that Kosovo is some special case.What makes it so special in the eyes of our colleagues?
It turns out that it is the fact that the conflict in Kosovo resulted in so many human casualties.
This is not even double standards; this is amazing, primitive, blunt cynicism.
One should not try so crudely to make everything suit their interests, calling the same thing white today and black tomorrow.
According to this logic, we have to make sure every conflict leads to human losses.
The answer is simple: because it is very difficult, practically impossible to fight against the will of the people.
I would like to thank those Ukrainian service members who refrained from bloodshed and did not smear their uniforms in blood.
Like a mirror.
The Arab Spring turned into the Arab Winter.
But we saw no reciprocal steps.
That’s easy to say.
In short, we have every reason to assume that the infamous policy of containment, led in the 18th, 19th and 20th centuries, continues today.
You must always remember this.
Isn’t the desire of Crimea’s residents to freely choose their fate such a value?
Please understand us.
I sincerely want you to understand us: we do not want to harm you in any way, or to hurt your national feelings.
I want you to hear me, my dear friends.
I repeat, just as it has been for centuries, it will be a home to all the peoples living there.
What it will never be and do is follow in Bandera’s footsteps!
I simply cannot imagine that we would travel to Sevastopol to visit NATO sailors.
Of course, most of them are wonderful guys, but it would be better to have them come and visit us, be our guests, rather than the other way round.
Ancient Rus is our common source and we cannot live without each other.
Let me say one other thing too.
I want to thank everyone for this patriotic spirit, everyone without exception.
I stand assured of your support.

